5. FORMAL REQUIREMENTS
The thesis should include the official task description.
The thesis consists of five main parts:
 Contents
 Explanation of abbreviations and symbols (with units of measurement).
If the thesis does not contain many abbreviations (symbols), then it is not mandatory to compile
this part. In such cases, after the first use of the abbreviation (symbol) in the text, the explanation
should appear in parentheses; e.g. PLC (Programmable Logic Controller).
 The elaboration part of the thesis:
 Introduction (including the exact description of the goal);
 chapter 1,
 chapter 2,
 chapter 3, ... (the chapter titles of the thesis follow the task description);
 Summary.
 Bibliography
 Appendices
The chapters and subsections of the thesis should be marked with continuous decimal numbers.
CONTENTS
The table of contents must contain the number marks, titles and page numbers of the main and subchapters.
EXPLANATION OF ABBREVIATIONS
Explanations of all abbreviations used in the thesis and letter symbols used in mathematical formulas
must be given here. The order of each item should follow the order of first occurrence in the text!
INTRODUCTION / GOALS / MOTIVATION
Its scope is 1-3 pages. The choice of topic must be justified (motivation), the importance and timeliness
of the topic must be presented. It should be determined which specific part of the topic, will be discussed
in what depth. It should include the objectives of the task to be performed, the method of work leading
to it, and structure of the thesis

ELABORATION PART
The structure of the elaboration should be properly structured, but avoid over-editing (it is advisable to
create 3-7 subsections)! The chapter structure of the elaboration part of the thesis and their titles should
follow what is included in the task description!
The general structure of the elaboration part:
 Literature history/Overview;
 System design (hardware and software);
 Selection of system elements based on objective system design data;
 Cost plan;
 Hardware and software implementation of the system (design, production, testing, calibration);
 Comparison of the implemented system and the plan;
 Further development / expansion possibilities.
The text of the thesis must be the student's original work! The citations used should be properly
indicated! Longer quotations should be included in the appendix or refer to the literature! The reference to
the literature, figure, table is indicated in the appropriate place with a number between square brackets, e.g.
[1], which refers to the corresponding item in the bibliography. The starting and ending page numbers
should also be entered.
The tables and figures placed in the text help with understanding, highlight the most important data, and
illustrate what is being said. For tables and figures taken from the literature, the source must be indicated!
The results of the work performed must also be expressed in text; a table or circuit diagram is not enough.
Tables, figures, and circuit diagrams of specific company documents are in most cases too detailed; it is
advisable either to include them in a simplified version in the text or in detail, together with an explanation,
in the appendix.
SUMMARY
Its scope is 1-4 pages. Do not include new elements: the description of the thought process, the results
proving individual work and the most important suggestions and evaluations should be included here! The
text should refer to the introduction, indicate whether the goals set there have been achieved, whether the
results meet expectations!
BIBLIOGRAPHY
The items in the bibliography should follow each other in the order of the references in the text! Each item
is identified and referenced by a serial number in square brackets, e.g. [1].
APPENDICES
Materials supplementing and illustrating the thesis, and providing some additional details should be
attached in the order of reference in the text. The scope should be moderate!
The length of the elaboration part of the thesis: 40-60 pages. This does not include the material in the
Appendices chapter.
The thesis should be submitted in black leatherette binding, in 2 copies (1 original + 1 duplicate).